Raccourcis I3 Windows Manager
=============================
[HELP] 
  - [example config](https://i3wm.org/docs/user-contributed/lzap-config.html)
  - [reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/i3wm/)

keyboards
---------

### switch to workspace
+ Win+² switch to last Workscape
+ Win+Tab switch to right Workspace
+ Win+Shift+Tab switch to left Workspace
+ Win+1 workspace dev
+ Win+2 workspace test
+ Win+3 workspace web
+ Win+4 workspace disponible
+ Win+5 workspace disponible
+ Win+6 workspace disponible
+ Win+7 workspace disponible
+ Win+8 workspace help
+ Win+9 workspace monitor
+ Win+0 workspace media



### split in horizontal orientation
Win+w split h

### split in vertical orientation
Win+b split v

### Open New Terminal
Win+SHIFT+T exec urxvt

### Manage tabs in console (urxvt)
Shift+<flêche-bas>    : crée un nouveau tab
Shift+<flêche-haut>   : renomme le tab courant
Shift+<flêche-droit>  : active le tab droit
Shift+<flêche-gauche> : active le tab gauche

### Open application
Win+p <application-name><enter>

### kill focused window
+ Win+q kill

### switch to window on the right 
+ Win+Tab focus right

### SCRATCHPAD CREATE
+ Win+SHIFT+plus move scratchpad

### SCRATCHPAD SHOW
+ Win+plus scratchpad show


### change focus
+ Win+h focus left
+ Win+j focus down
+ Win+k focus up
+ Win+l focus right

### move focused window
+ Win+Shift+H move left
+ Win+Shift+J move down
+ Win+Shift+K move up
+ Win+Shift+L move right


### enter fullscreen mode for the focused container
+ Win+f fullscreen

### change container layout (stacked, tabbed, default)
+ Win+t layout tabbed
+ Win+e layout default
+ Win+s layout stacking

### toggle tiling / floating
Win+Shift+space floating toggle

### change focus between tiling / floating windows
Win+space focus mode_toggle

### focus the parent container
Win+a focus parent

### focus the child container
Win+d focus child


### move focused container to workspace
+ Win+Shift+exclam move container to workspace $WS1
+ Win+Shift+at move container to workspace $WS2
+ Win+Shift+numbersign move container to workspace $WS3
+ Win+Shift+dollar move container to workspace $WS4
+ Win+Shift+percent move container to workspace $WS5
+ Win+Shift+asciicircum move container to workspace $WS6
+ Win+Shift+ampersand move container to workspace $WS7
+ Win+Shift+asterisk move container to workspace 8
+ Win+Shift+parenleft move container to workspace 9
+ Win+Shift+parenright move container to workspace 10

### reload the configuration file
Win+Shift+C reload

### restart i3 inplace (preserves your layout/session, can be used to upgrade i3)
Win+Shift+R restart

### exit i3 (logs you out of your X session)
Win+Shift+E exit

### resizing  
Win+r mode "resize"

### resize window (you can also use the mouse for that)
+ h resize shrink width 10 px or 10 ppt
+ j resize grow height 10 px or 10 ppt
+ k resize shrink height 10 px or 10 ppt
+ l resize grow width 10 px or 10 ppt 

### back to normal after resizing: Enter or Escape
+ Return mode "default"
+ Escape mode "default"

### Exit
Win+Control+q mode "Exit >> (L)ogout, (X)eboot, (P)oweroff  (C)Reload (R)Restart"


### User clipboard history
+ Win+c -> Display a numbered history of the clipboard (all that have been copied recently). Selected line replaces current clipboard and can be used

### take screenshot
Print exec scrot 'Screenshot - %Y-%m-%d--%_$wx$h_scrot.png' -e 'mv $f ~/images/'




### volume adjustment
+ Win+SHIFT+Up exec amixer set Master 5.0%+
+ Win+SHIFT+Down exec amixer set Master 5.0%-

### start dmenu (a program launcher)
+ Win+p exec --no-startup-id dmenu_run -b  -fn 'Dejavu Sans Mono:10' -nb '#111111' -nf '#00AFDA' -sb '#111111' -sf '#E7E8E9'

### Transparency
+ Win+i exec transset-df -a

configuration
-------------

## windows properties
[TODO] 
  - lister toutes les propriétés reconnues par i3 (depuis la doc?, depuis un message d'erreur ?)
  - compléter le script i3prop en conséquence


  rules in i3 config target windows with command criteria the following syntax
  ```
  bindsym $MOD+v [instance="devdocs.io" class="google-chrome"] scratchpad show
  for_window [instance="SCRATCHPAD"] floating enable;
  ```
**note**
  - if a window doesn't have any usable windows property refer to this [reddit](https://m.reddit.com/r/i3wm/comments/40jqad/how_can_i_exec_as_a_floating_window/)
  - one can alse use 'marks' (see online doc)

### i3prop
  - to get the list of i3 properties of a windows use i3prop
  - to get the list of underlying X properties of a window use xprop

#### i3prop full list
**note** The criteria class, instance, role, title, workspace and mark are actually regular expressions (PCRE).

criteria    | description
---         | ---
class       | Compares the window class (the second part of WM_CLASS). Use the special value __focused__ to match all windows having the same window class as the currently focused window.
instance    | Compares the window instance (the first part of WM_CLASS). Use the special value __focused__ to match all windows having the same window instance as the currently focused window.
window_role | Compares the window role (WM_WINDOW_ROLE). Use the special value __focused__ to match all windows having the same window role as the currently focused window.
window_type | Compare the window type (_NET_WM_WINDOW_TYPE). Possible values are normal, dialog, utility, toolbar, splash, menu, dropdown_menu, popup_menu, tooltip and notification.
id          | Compares the X11 window ID, which you can get via xwininfo for example.
title       | Compares the X11 window title (_NET_WM_NAME or WM_NAME as fallback). Use the special value __focused__ to match all windows having the same window title as the currently focused window.
urgent      | Compares the urgent state of the window. Can be "latest" or "oldest". Matches the latest or oldest urgent window, respectively. (The following aliases are also available: newest, last, recent, first)
workspace   | Compares the workspace name of the workspace the window belongs to. Use the special value __focused__ to match all windows in the currently focused workspace.
con_mark    | Compares the marks set for this container, see [vim_like_marks]. A match is made if any of the container’s marks matches the specified mark.
con_id      | Compares the i3-internal container ID, which you can get via the IPC interface. Handy for scripting. Use the special value __focused__ to match only the currently focused window.

### i3 & X properties mapping

xprop value                      | i3 value    | comment
---                              | ---         | ---
WM_CLASS(STRING)                 | instance    | only the first element of ('WM_CLASS') if any
WM_CLASS(STRING)                 | class       |
_NET_WM_NAME(UTF8_STRING)        | title       |
WM_NAME(UTF8_STRING)             | title       | only if '_NET_WMNAME' not sete
WM_WINDOW_ROLE(STRING)           | window_role |
_NET_WM_WINDOW_TYPE              | window_type |
WM_STATE(WM_STATE)               | ?           |
_NET_WM_USER_TIME(CARDINAL)      | ?           |
WM_NORMAL_HINTS(WM_SIZE_HINTS)   | ?           |
_MOTIF_WM_HINTS(_MOTIF_WM_HINTS) | ?           |
_NET_WM_ICON(CARDINAL)           | ?           |
_NET_WM_WINDOW_TYPE(ATOM)        | ?           |
_NET_WM_PID(CARDINAL)            | ?           |
WM_LOCALE_NAME(STRING)           | ?           |
WM_CLIENT_MACHINE(STRING)        | ?           |
WM_PROTOCOLS(ATOM)               | ?           |
 
